#  The detailed guide on converting video using VLC in Windows 10
### In this guide, I am going to show you how to convert video in VLC, with a few tips along the way.
By Sebastian Doe
First Published: 2nd February 2019

Hello, and in this guide I am going to explain to you how to convert video using VLC, including how to convert multiple files at once and some useful tips. Let’s get started.

#### This article is sponsored by GameProxy. Play, upload your favourite games at (https://gameproxy.host)[https://gameproxy.host]

Converting a single file at once

Open VLC and press the Media button.
Click ‘Convert / Save’
In this menu you should see a menu with a box with ‘File Selection’ on top of it. If you click add, then it will bring up your explorer window and you can select the file you want. Click ‘Open’ to continue.
Below there are a few more options, including one to let you add a subtitle file which it will tag to the video and a checkbox saying ‘Show more options’. If you click that you will be able to adjust caching, start and stop time and the MRL. You normally shouldn’t be worried about those though, so just click the button that says ‘Convert / Save’ to continue.
At the top of this menu it shows the source file, and then below gives you the option to Display the output and to Deinterlace, but unless you know what you’re doing don’t tick any of those, as displaying the output makes conversion rate slower (if you choose that it goes at the speed of the video) and can make the video choppier. Further down it shows a box saying ‘Profile’. If you click the drop down menu, you can choose one of the default profiles and if you want to convert it to one of those then just skip to step 7. If you want to customize what you’re converting though, just go to the next step.
If you click the tool icon, it will bring up a menu titled ‘Profile edition’. In the Encapsulation tab, you can choose the file ending and it will show the supported features such as Video, Audio, Subtitles, Menus and so on. If you would like one that supports all of them, choose MKV. In the next tab titled Video Codec, there is another menu with 3 choices below. In the first menu titled Encoding Parameters, you can choose the Codec, Bitrate and Frame Rate. In the next menu titled Resolution, you can choose the Scale and Frame Size (this article is useful for deciding what frame size to use). In the final menu, you can choose some filters for filtering out some problems with old TV programs. If you move the main menu over to Audio Codec, you can choose some Encoding Parameters such as the audio codec, Bitrate, Channels and the Sample Rate. In the submenu titled Filters, you can choose some filters for the audio like for the video codec before. In the final box titled Subtitles, you can choose the subtitle codec and whether you would like to overlay the subtitles over the video. Once you click Save, it will go back to the menu before with the selected features. They will save for the next time you want to convert video.
In the box titled ‘Destination’, if you click Browse you can choose where you want the file to save. When you’re ready, you can click Start.
VLC will then start converting the video. Where the video progress bar, it will show you where through the video it is currently converting, including the timestamps. Once the timestamps at both ends say ‘--:--’, it means the video is finished converting. If you open the folder where you wanted it to be saved, the converted video should be there.

Converting multiple files without having to individually convert every file

This is actually very similar to converting a single file at once, so similar in fact that I copied the instructions from above, but i’ve changed a few instructions and added a couple of tips.

Open VLC and press the Media button.
Click ‘Convert / Save’
In this menu you should see a menu with a box with ‘File Selection’ on top of it. If you click add, then it will bring up your explorer window and you can select the files you want to convert. Click ‘Open’ to continue. If you want to add some from multiple different folders, just click ‘Add’ again and select some more files. If you want to remove one, just select the file you want to remove and click ‘Remove’.
Below there are a few more options, including one to let you add a subtitle file which it will tag to the video and a checkbox saying ‘Show more options’. If you click that you will be able to adjust caching, start and stop time and the MRL. You normally shouldn’t be worried about those though, so just click the button that says ‘Convert / Save’ to continue.
At the top of this menu it shows the source file, and then below gives you the option to Display the output and to Deinterlace, but unless you know what you’re doing don’t tick any of those, as displaying the output makes conversion rate slower (if you choose that it goes at the speed of the video) and can make the video choppier. Further down it shows a box saying ‘Profile’. If you click the drop down menu, you can choose one of the default profiles and if you want to convert it to one of those then just skip to step 7. If you want to customize what you’re converting though, just go to the next step.
If you click the tool icon, it will bring up a menu titled ‘Profile edition’. In the Encapsulation tab, you can choose the file ending and it will show the supported features such as Video, Audio, Subtitles, Menus and so on. If you would like one that supports all of them, choose MKV. In the next tab titled Video Codec, there is another menu with 3 choices below. In the first menu titled Encoding Parameters, you can choose the Codec, Bitrate and Frame Rate. In the next menu titled Resolution, you can choose the Scale and Frame Size (this article is useful for deciding what frame size to use). In the final menu, you can choose some filters for filtering out some problems with old TV programs. If you move the main menu over to Audio Codec, you can choose some Encoding Parameters such as the audio codec, Bitrate, Channels and the Sample Rate. In the submenu titled Filters, you can choose some filters for the audio like for the video codec before. In the final box titled Subtitles, you can choose the subtitle codec and whether you would like to overlay the subtitles over the video. Once you click Save, it will go back to the menu before with the selected features. They will save for the next time you want to convert video.
In the box titled ‘Destination’, it will say Multiple Files Selected under Destination file. If you click ‘Append ‘-converted’ to filename’, you will be able to keep the original files separate instead of overwriting it just in case something goes wrong or you made a mistake earlier so you can recover the previous file.  When you’re ready, you can click Start.
VLC will then start converting the video. Where the video progress bar, it will show you where through the video it is currently converting, including the timestamps. Once the timestamps at both ends say ‘--:--’, it either means that it has finished converting or it is in between converting videos. To make sure that it isn’t in between converting videos, look at the timestamps for a few seconds to make sure that they don’t change from ‘--:--’, and if they don’t, check where the folder the videos are from and make sure that there is a duplicate of all the videos you added. If so, you have successfully converted multiple videos!


You have now got your new video/s! If you liked this article, don’t forget to share it below as it would be much appreciated.